My World


        Imagine a world very similar to ours. Houses in cities or towns, cities or towns in provinces or states, provinces or states in countries, countries in continents surrounded by oceans, continents surrounded by oceans on a revolving planet, a planet orbiting a sun, a sun being a single star in a galaxy, a galaxy in a universe, a universe in a multiverse of what is believed to be many universes. Imagine the organisms that might inhabit this world you are imagining. Imagine the plants, the animals, the people. Imagine the living, the dead, the unborn. Imagine the emotion, the wonder, the excitement, and imagine the pain, the grief, the boredom. Imagine the history, imagine what second, minute, hour, day, week, month, year, decade, century, and millennium it is. Imagine the measurements, the centimeters, the inches. Imagine the faces, the long and thin, the short and fat. Imagine the landscape, beautiful farms, forests, factories, power plants. Imagine the waters of the puddles, ponds, lakes, oceans, creeks, and rivers. Imagine the safety of the world. Imagine the danger. Imagine the technology, the wheels, the gears, the tools, the steam, the electricity. Imagine the culture. Imagine the crime, and the laws to not prevent them. Imagine the economy. Have you imagined the world very similar to ours yet? Is it similar, or is it the same? It does not matter.
        Forget the world you just thought of. It does not exist. Stop imagining. Wake up and see what is in front of you. See the work that must be done. See the money that you must make. See everything your eyes will allow, but go no further than that. See that people do not like to be told what to do, but do what they are told regardless. Stop. Go. Work. Play. Sleep. Wake. Eat. Drink. Stop. Stop thinking about the world you are a part of. Think about my world. The world I created. 
The world I created is unlike any other. It brings wonder and excitement to everyone, not just those who have the time to be full of wonder or excited. My world is not even closely resembling the world we are a part of. It is so new, so different, so perfect that anybody given the opportunity to live in it, even if it involves the abandonment of their loved ones, will take it. In my world, nobody gets angry. Nobody fights. In my world, everybody is happy. Everybody is content. In my world, Nobody dies. Nobody grieves. In my world, there is room for everybody. It never overpopulates. In my world, people can do as they please. People can build, people can destroy. In my world, nobody cares if someone builds something. Nobody cares if someone destroys something. In my world, you are not ruled by anything other than yourself. So do what you want to. Is that not perfect? Some think it is not perfect. The best part about my world is that no matter who you are or what your beliefs are, you will think my world is perfect. You have no choice but to think my world is perfect. If you do not think my world is perfect, you are not a part of my world, and you have no right to think such a thing. You are still in this world. Come to my world, and you will see that it is perfect. My world is the very definition of perfect. Ask anybody from my world. They all think so. The economy is great. Everybody can afford everything. That is only one of many things that make people a part of my world so happy and content. Most people who know about my world but are not a part of it think that my world sounds terrible and boring. If you were able to see my world without being a part of it (which is impossible), you would have justification for thinking it is terrible and boring. Now, if you come and be a part of my world, you will immediately realize that it is in fact perfect, and you will not be able to think of why you ever thought it was terrible and boring. If you are a part of my world, you can not experience any other emotion other than happiness and contentment. I know that does not sound nice at all, but you will not even be able to think that it is not nice when you come and be a part of my world. Is that not perfect? You are in my world, you are happy. You are in my world, you are content. 
In my world, you are rich. In my world, you are loved. In my world, you are special. In my world, you are young. In my world, you are beautiful. In my world, you are comfortable. In my world, you can do anything. In my world, you can be anyone. In my world, you can please people. In my world, you can be pleased. In my world, you can make your own world. In my world, you can be safe. In my world, you are free of danger. In my world, you can fly. In my world, you can be invisible. In my world, you can move things with your mind. In my world, you can have any ability you want. In my world, you can create things. In my world, you can create new plants. In my world, you can create new species. In my world, you can create new humans. In my world, your new humans can be whatever you want them to be. In my world, your new humans can think whatever you want them to think. In my world, you can convince anybody anything. In my world, you are listened to. In my world, you are free of school. In my world, you are free of work. In my world, you are free of life. In my world, you are free of everything. In my world, you are perfect. In my world, everybody is perfect. In my world, everything is perfect. In my world, everybody is happy. In my world, everybody is content.
In my world, you are dead.